Cockpit 245 (#418)
cockpit-project/cockpit-project.github.io: _posts/2021-05-26-cockpit-245.md

---
title: Cockpit 245
author: lis
date: 2021-05-26
tags: cockpit linux
slug: cockpit-245
category: release
summary: Cockpit with metrics and storage improvements
---

Cockpit is the [modern Linux admin interface](https://cockpit-project.org/).  We release regularly.

Here are the release notes from Cockpit version 245 and cockpit-podman version 31.

> ## Release process: No more cockpit-cache tarball

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Release: Drop cockpit-cache tarball
```
I'd suggest moving this to the bottom, as most users won't ever have heard about this, nor care.

Author: Good point. I always think about distro packagers when I'm writing these, but it's actually users I should be thinking about...

reproducibility and possible GPL compliance reasons (since the main release
tarball contains a good deal of generated code).

This has been replaced with a separate git repository,
[cockpit-project/node-cache](https://github.com/cockpit-project/node-cache/releases),
which will now receive a tag for each release.

## Metrics: New PCP configuration dialog

The Metrics page header has a new "Metrics settings" button:

![Metrics page header showing new settings button](/images/metrics-menu.png)

This allows you to enable or disable the [Performance Co-Pilot](https://pcp.io/) (PCP) metrics collector:

![The start of a new Metrics settings dialog](/images/metrics-settings.png)

Related options will be added in the near future.

## Storage: Show both SHA256 and SHA1 Tang fingerprints

Newer versions of `tang-show-keys` will use SHA256 to compute the thumbprints
of the keys, so Cockpit now shows both versions to allow key verification for
both new and old versions.

![Key verification with SHA256 and SHA1 fingerprints](/images/storage-tang-dual-fingerprint.png)

## cockpit-podman: Added Korean translation

A new translation has been added for the Korean language.

> Thank you to [simmon](https://translate.fedoraproject.org/user/simmon/) for the efforts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thanks to [simmon](https://translate.fedoraproject.org/user/simmon/) for the efforts.
```

Reviewer 2: GH account: https://github.com/simmon-nplob
But weblate account probably makes equal sense here

Author: I had the GitHub account on the first draft, in fact, but I switched it over to Weblate.

### Try it out

Cockpit 245 and cockpit-podman 31 are available now:

 * [For your Linux system](https://cockpit-project.org/running.html)
 * [Cockpit Source Tarball](https://github.com/cockpit-project/cockpit/releases/tag/245)
 * [Cockpit Fedora 34](https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-2021-)

>  * [Cockpit Fedora 33](https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-2021-)

Reviewer: Still needs these updated.
